Hey guys welcome back to the course in this lecture we're going to talk about a very common problem
that pops up in web and mobile development projects and that is you have an outsourced firm or contracted
firm or person.
And when you get to the phase where it's finished and you're now evaluating and doing quality assurance
there are bugs that are repeatedly there and are persistent.
Now what do I mean by this.
I mean this is when you first look at your finished project you probably notice a lot of bugs previous
lectures we talked about ways of listing out those bugs and how to best document them and get your contractor
to fix them in kind of a sequential order.
But what'll happen a lot of times especially if you're working with outsourced labor in a country that
might not have the same language skills you have is that you'll have persistent bugs so you say hey
this button doesn't work.
They say OK it's fixed.
You go back.
It's not fixed.
So you go back again and you say fix it.
It never gets fixed.
This is a problem that happens really all too often and it really just kind of depends what the quality
of the freelancer you picked.
But what's primarily happening here is two different things.
One they simply do not understand what exactly it is that you're talking about when you say that something
should do this but it's not doing this.
They need you to explain it in a more literal way.
What ends up happening is they are not 100 percent sure of what you mean.
The other thing is that you might have given them a situation where something doesn't work and they
check that specific situation but not all of the other types of situations.
So in the first case it's a misunderstanding.
OK.
The best way of tackling this is immediately find if you have a bug that's not being it's being persistent.
And typically why this happens is because when you told them what the problem was you didn't go into
enough detail.
You simply said in a sentence this should be like this.
It's like this.
OK.
Well they're not usually native English speakers so they might be confused exactly what you mean or
remember projects get confusing.
I mean a lot of different jargon you're not completely used to.
You can't agree on the terms.
A lot of times it's hard even to describe certain sections of your site or your application.
How does you describe them concisely or in an accurate manner.
We have problems labeling our projects all the time.
You know we might call one section something or a function a certain something and someone else in the
company might call it something completely different.
It's there's a lot of opportunity for miscommunication.
So if that's the case you need to cut out the language problem you need just stop relying on semantics
and your English ability to describe the problem and start using a visual explanation.
Now there's several ways you can do that.
Screen shots are the best you can possibly do.
Get in find the problem and document it.
Take a photograph of a screen do a screen shot exactly what it should look like and what it does not
look like.
Put that in a Word document and describe every single image you can try to put as much specificity as
you possibly can.
And ninety nine percent of the time when you do that Bill understand finally what it is.
Basically it just means that there there's probably an English barrier and you need to get around that
by skipping the language requirement and just started using visual requirements.
You could even go so far as using a screen share if you guys want some suggestions for a screen share
software.
Just post on the group discussion.
Really easy there's a lot of free ones.
All you can do is just thin film what exactly you're seeing on your computer or on your phone.
And then just make a recording of it not working.
That's one of the best ways of capturing bugs.
Now the other scenario where you have persistent bugs is because they are only looking at one instance.
So now like for instance in a web project that has you know the ability to log in and create an account
save information to your profile things like that or what we call user settings in a scenario like that
it could be the case that a bug only persists in one area for one type of user.
So what happens a lot of times is I might say to a developer or a freelancer this is a problem I've
noticed when I've logged in.
OK.
So what they do is they go look at my account they log in they find the bug and they fix it but they
didn't fix it for everybody else is experiencing it.
They didn't fix it for when you're not logged in.
They didn't fix it for when the administrators logged in they didn't fix it for all the other users
so they're only thinking a narrow space of time.
This happens a lot with contractors remember they don't get paid extra to fix bugs.
This is just something that's required in their contracts.
They're not going to go above and beyond to look for every single scenario.
If that's the case again you just need to put out a word document and try to capture that bug as many
times as possible screen shares are great screen are great.
Try to find every scenario where you find it and document it say what your browser was say the time
you got it say what exactly the error message was or whatever the issue is where you saw what you were
logged into etc etc..
Try to add specificity to it and just understand.
This happens a lot of times because applications are complicated and it can be very complicate especially
when you're working with a contractor who needs to put his time elsewhere or is not incentivized to
put extra effort into fixing this bug.
So in both scenarios understand these are completely natural but the way you get around them is by adding
more detail just take a little bit of time to document it and make sure they know exactly what's going
on.
Do a little bug hunting on your own and you should be fine.
All right.
So in the next lecture.